# Installing and uninstalling a package

## Nest pull

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the part of the introduction about the cache)
The command `nest pull` synchronizes the local packages' cache with the one on Raven's server. The concept of the cache was already explained in the [introduction](). You need to run this command regularly to update your cache. This operation is completely harmless, so don't hesitate to use it frequently!

## Nest install

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the part about the package's syntax from the last chapter)
To install packages, run `nest install <package>` in a terminal, by using the following syntax `repository::category/package#[version|version_req]` explained in the [last chapter]().

Some parts of this syntax may be omitted if it only matches **one** and only one package. Otherwise, Nest will throw an error. That means you can use `repository/package` or `category/package`, or `package`. At least the package's name is mandatory. For example, if there is only one package named "super_cool_package" among all the repositories Nest is using, you can just input the package's name instead of the whole syntax. Nest always chooses the version by descending order, aka from the latest one to the oldest one.

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the part of the introduction talking about the dependencies)
As previously quoted [before](), Nest might install more packages than the ones you initially wanted, those are just the dependencies of the packages you wanted to install.

The output of the `nest install` command is as followed:

```
$ nest install stable/dash
    install stable::sys-lib/gcc-base#1.0.0
    install stable::sys-lib/libgcc#1.0.0
    install stable::sys-lib/libc#1.0.0
    install stable::shell/dash#1.0.0

Would you like to apply these transactions? [Yes/no]
```

The last package to get installed is the main package, dependencies packages having been installed in priority. That's why in our example above, the package `dash` is installed at the very end.

To answer yes, just type *Yes* or *Y*, then press enter, or simply just press enter. When Nest (and most CLI programs) asks you a closed question like this one, the default answer usually begins with an uppercase letter. So in this case, just pressing enter is equivalent to type *yes* and then press enter.

## Nest uninstall

The operation used to uninstall a package is `nest uninstall <package>`.

This command will remove the given package, its binaries, libraries, manual pages, etc... But it will keep all the files generated by the software itself (if it was a text editor for example, it will keep all the files you created or edited with it). Nest keeps the package's configuration files as well, in case you reinstall that package later, so you won't have to configure everything once again.

This operation will not remove the package's dependencies, because they might be used by another installed package. Removing them could break your system.

## Troubleshooting

### No packages match \<package>

If you see this kind of error message:

```
$ nest install gcc
No packages match gcc, unable to install it.
```

[//]: # (TODO: add link to the 5th chapter about `nest search`)
[//]: # (TODO: add link to Nest's packages list on Raven's website)
It basically means that Nest can't find the package you were looking for in your local cache. You have several options from here:

* Running `nest pull` in order to refresh your local cache and then type the command again
* Checking your syntax
* Using the command `nest search <package>` (which will be detailed [later]()) to search in your local cache if that package exists.
* Going on Raven's website [here](), to see a list of all available packages for Nest, through a Graphical User Interface. Visiting this website doesn't require you to refresh your local cache obviously, the list of packages you see there is up-to-date at any given time. But in order to install a package from this list, you might need to refresh your local cache using `nest pull` first.

### Several packages match \<package>

If you see this error message:

```
$ nest install gcc
Several packages match gcc:
    stable::sys-devel/gcc
    stable::sys-lib/gcc
Aborting.
```

It's pretty self-explanatory. You'll need to specify your request. In this case, specifying the category is enough, since the repository for both results are the same. So you would need to type `nest install sys-devel/gcc` for example.